
.. _tests.results:

Test Results
============

Every successful test run generates a set of results in JSON. These are
saved with the test, but are also logged to a central ``results.log``
file that is formatted in a Splunk compatible manner.

This page covers how results are gathered for each test run, as well as how
to use the results system to pull results from test output.

.. contents:

Gathering Results
-----------------

Result gathering steps:

1) Generate the base result field values.
2) Use result parser plugins to parse values from result files.
3) Use result evaluations to modify results or generate additional values.
4) Convert the 'result' key from True/False to 'PASS'/'FAIL'.

All results are stored in a json mapping that looks like this:

.. code-block:: json

    {"avg_speed": 3.7999,
     "command_test": "PASS",
     "created": "2020-07-06 15:28:08.528899",
     "duration": "0:00:06.130584",
     "finished": "2020-07-06 15:28:08.528617",
     "id": 16176,
     "job_id": "123",
     "name": "mytests.base",
     "pav_result_errors": [],
     "result": "PASS",
     "return_value": 0,
     "sched": {"avail_mem": "80445",
               "cpus": "36",
               "free_mem": "76261",
               "min_cpus": "36",
               "min_mem": "131933.144",
               "total_mem": "125821"},
     "started": "2020-07-06 15:28:02.398033",
     "sys_name": "pav-test",
     "n": {
        "node01": {"raw_speed": 33},
        "node03": {"raw_speed": 39},
        "node05": {"raw_speed": 42}
     }
     "user": "bob"}

- Most values are stored at the top level of the mapping.
- Most scheduler variables are included, to improve tracking of how exactly
  the test ran.
- ``pav_result_errors`` stores a list of errors encountered when gathering
  results.
- The 'n' and 'fn' sections store per_file information. This can be used to
  gather separate per-node information in cases where you have an output file
  for each node when using result parsers.
- Average speed in this case is a value calculated from each of the node speeds
  using *result evaluations*.

The Results Log
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The results log records every step of the results gathering process in great
detail. It is stored in each test run directory in ``results.log``, and is
available via the ``pav log results <test_id>`` command.

The general results log keeps a record of the results of every test run under
your instance of Pavilion. It's location is configured via the general
``pavilion.yaml`` config, but defaults to residing in the working directory.
It's format is designed to be easily read by Splunk and similar tools.

Basic Result Keys
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

These keys are present in the results for every test, whether the test
passed or failed. To see the latest list of base result values, run
``pav show result_base``. All of these keys, as well as 'result', are reserved.

.. code-block:: text

    $ pav show result_base
     Name              | Doc
    -------------------+-------------------------------------------------
     name              | The test run name
     id                | The test run id
     created           | When the test was created.
     started           | When the test run itself started.
     finished          | When the test run finished.
     duration          | Duration of the test run (finished - started)
     user              | The user that started the test.
     job_id            | The scheduler plugin's jobid for the test.
     sched             | Most of the scheduler variables.
     sys_name          | The system name '{{sys.sys_name}}'
     pav_result_errors | Errors from processing results.
     n                 | Per file results (the filename sans extension).
     fn                | Per filename results.
     return_value      | The return value of run.sh

All time fields are in ISO8601 format.

Basic Result Parsing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``result_parse`` section of the config lets you configure result parsers
to pull useful information out of files generated by your test run.

Result parsers are plugins. Pavilion comes with several that are useful in
common scenarios, but tests with more complex results may warrant the
development of a custom result parser to specially handle that test's output.
To see the currently available result parsers, use ``pav show parsers``.

.. code-block:: bash

    $ pav show result_parsers
     Available Result Parsers
    -----------+----------------------------------------------------------
     Name      | Description
    -----------+----------------------------------------------------------
     command   | Runs a given command.
     filecheck | Checks the working directory for a given file. The
               | parser will tell the user if the filename exists or not.
     constant  | Set a constant as result.
     table     | Parses tables.
     regex     | Find matches to the given regex in the given file. The
               | matched string or strings are returned as the result.

Each of these is configured using its own configuration section under
``result parse``. To see the full configuration documentation for a parser,
use ``pav show result_parsers --config <parser_name>``.

.. code:: yaml

    mytest:
      scheduler: raw
      run:
        cmds:
          - ping -c 10 google.com

      result_parse:
          # The results.parse section is comprised of configs for result parsers,
          # identified by name. Each parser type section is further comprised
          # of a mapping of key to
          regex:
            # Each result parser can have multiple configs.

            # The value matched will be stored in this key
            loss:
              # This tells the regex parser what regular expression to use.
              # Single quotes are recommended, as they are literal in yaml.
              regex: '\d+% packet loss'

- Each result parser type can define multiple keys.
- The found value is stored at the top level of the result JSON (by default).
- All result parser keys must be unique.
- For more information on result parsers, see
  :ref:`tests.results.result_parsers`

.. _tests.results.evaluations:

Result Evaluations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Result evaluations allow you to perform math operations or call various
functions on your results to further process them. This allows you to perform
normalization, set constants, calculate averages, and other useful operations.
The syntax is identical to :ref:`tests.values.expressions` (the part inside the
double curly braces), **except variables are looked up from the results**
rather than Pavilion variables.

.. code-block:: yaml

    eval_example:
        run:
            cmds:
                - time wget google.com

        # This will produce results that include the line:
        # real   0m3.256s

        result_parse:
            regex:
                # Parse out the minutes and seconds
                real_m:
                    regex: 'real\s+(\d+)m'
                real_s:
                    regex: 'real\s\d+m([0-9.]+)s'

        result_evaluate:
            # combine the minutes and seconds that we parsed out
            # into one number of seconds.
            real: 'real_m * 60 + real_s'
            # These can reference values set by other evaluations.
            real_hours: 'real/60/60'

- Result evaluations may reference each other. Order doesn't matter.
- Values are automatically treated as the type that most resemble. This
  conversion is applied both to constants and the contents of variables.

  - 3.59 -> float
  - 3 -> int
  - True -> bool
  - "hello" -> string
  - hello -> variable
  - You can refer to deeply nested values using dot notation:

- "table.col.row" - Would refer to the 'row' key of the 'col' dict which
  is itself a key in the 'table' dict.
- "sched.test_node_list.5" - Would refer to the fifth item in the
  node list.

Complex Variable References
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The result JSON isn't necessarily a flat dictionary. It may contain lists,
other dictionaries, lists of dicts containing lists, and so on.  To get to
deeper keys, you simply provide each step in the path in a dot-seperated name.

For example, given a result structure that looks like:

.. code-block:: json

    {
        "name": "example_results",
        "table":
            "node1": {"speed": 30.0, "items": 5},
            "node2": {"speed": 50.0, "items": 4},
            "node3": {"speed": 70.0, "items": 3}
        "sched": {
            "test_nodes": 3,
            "test_node_list": ["node1", "node2", "node3"],
    }

- "table.node1.speed" - Would refer to the 'speed' key of the 'node1' dict which
  is itself a key in the 'table' dict. (It has value ``30.0``).
- "sched.test_node_list.1" - Would refer to the second item in the node list.
  ('node2' in this case)

Pulling Lists of Values
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can also use a single '*' in a variable name to return a list of every
matching value.

- "table.*.speed" -> [30.0, 50.0, 70.0]
- "test_node_list.*" -> ["node1", "node2", "node3"]

  - Which is the same as "test_node_list" by itself, actually.

To get the keys of a dictionary, use the ``keys`` function. The keys are
guaranteed to be in the same order as the values produced when using a '*'.

A Complex Example
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Given a test that produces values per node and gathers them using the result
parser :ref:`tests.results.per_file` feature, you may want to use all of
those values to calculate an average or outliers.

.. code-block:: yaml

    multi_val:
        slurm:
            num_nodes: all

        run:
            # Get the root filesystem usage per node.
            cmds: '{{test_cmd}} -o "%N.out" df /'

        result_parse:
            regex:
                used:
                    regex: '^rootfs\s+\d+\s+(\d+)'
                    files: '*.out'
                    per_file: 'name'

1. This will give us a ``<node_name>.out`` file for each node with the command
   output.
2. The result parser will parse out the 3rd column from the 'rootfs' line from
   each of these files.
3. The 'per_file' option of 'name' will store these results in the 'n'
   dictionary by the root filename.

The results will look like:

.. code-block:: json

    {
        "name": "examples.multi_val",
        "n": {
            "node01": {"used": "709248"},
            "node03": {"used": "802218"},
            "node04": {"used": "699320"},
            "node05": {"used": "2030531"},
        },
        "etc": "...",
    }

We could then add the following to our test config to perform calculations
on these values.

.. code-block:: yaml

    multi_val:
        # ...

    result_evaluate:
        mean_used: 'avg(n.*.used)'
        outlier_data: 'outliers(n.*.used, keys(n), 1.5)'
        outliers: 'keys(outlier_data)'

Would give us results like:

.. code-block:: json

    {
        "name": "examples.multi_val",
        "n": {
            "node01": {"used": "709248"},
            "node03": {"used": "802218"},
            "node04": {"used": "699320"},
            "node05": {"used": "2030531"},
        },
        "mean_used": 1060329.25,
        "outlier_data": {"node05": 1.7276},
        "outliers": {"node05"},
    }

String Expressions in Result Evaluations
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Pavilion variables and string expressions ('{{ stuff }}') can be used,
carefully, in result evaluations. Keep in mind that they are evaluated as a
separate step (using pavilion variables), and will become the string that is
later evaluated in result evaluations.

.. code-block:: yaml

    expr_eval:

        variables:
            num_var: 'num'
            num: 8
            base: 2
            message: "hello world"

        result_evaluate:
            # Set the result 'num' key to 52
            num: '50'

            half_num: '{{num_var}}/2'
            # After strings are resolved, this will become:
            # 'num/2'
            # This will then be evaluated, and the 'num' result value will be
            # used (50).
            # The result 'half_num' key will thus be 25. (ie: ``50/2`` )

            # If we want to include a Pavilion variable as a string, it must
            # be put in quotes.
            msg_len: 'len("{{message}}")'
            # This will become: 'len("hello world")'
            # Which will evaluate to ``11``.

            # You can actually include more complex expressions in both
            # the string expression and the evaluation, but this should be
            # avoided
            complicated: '(num * {{ base^10 }})/100'
            # The value string resolves to: '(num * 1024)/100'
            # Which evaluates to: ``(50 * 1024)/100`` -> ``512.0``

The Test Result
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The 'result' key denotes the final test result, and will always be
either '**PASS**', '**FAIL**' or '**ERROR**'.  **ERROR** in this case means
the test had a non-recoverable error when checking whether the test
passed or failed.

You can set the 'result' using either result parsers or result evaluations.
It must be set as a single True or False value.

- For result parsers, this means you should use an 'action' of 'store_true'
  (the default) or 'store_false' (See :ref:`tests.results.actions`). You will
  also need to use a 'per_file' setting that produces a single value, like
  'first' or 'all' (See :ref:`tests.results.per_file`).
- For result evaluations this simply means ensuring that the evaluation
  returns a boolean, typically by way of a comparison operator.

If you don't set the 'result' key yourself, Pavilion defaults to adding the
evaluation: ``result: 'return_value == 0'``. This is why, by default,
Pavilion test runs **PASS** if the run script returns 0.

.. _tests.results.result_parsers:

Result Parsers
--------------

The ``result_parse`` section of each test config lets us configure additional
result parsers that can pull data out of test output files. By default
each parser reads from the run log, which contains the stdout and stderr
from the run script and your test.

.. code:: yaml

    mytest:
      scheduler: raw
      run:
        cmds:
          - ping -c 10 google.com

      result_parse:
        # The results.parse section is comprised of configs for result parsers,
        # identified by name. Each parser can have a list of one or more
        # configs, each of which will parse a different result value from
        # the test output.
        result_parse:
          regex:
          # Each result parser can have multiple configs.
            # The value matched will be stored in this key
            loss:
              # This tells the regex parser what regular expression to use.
              # Single quotes are recommended, as they are literal in yaml.
              regex: '\d+% packet loss'

              # We're storing this value in the result key. If it's found
              # (and has a value of 'True', then the test will 'PASS'.
            result:
              regex: '10 received'
              # The action denotes how to handle the parser's data. In this case
              # a successful match will give a 'True' value.
              action: store_true

The results for this test run might look like:

.. code:: json

    {
      "name": "mytest",
      "id": 51,
      "created": "2019-06-18 16:00:35.692878-06:00",
      "started": "2019-06-18 16:00:36.744221-06:00",
      "finished": "2019-06-18 16:01:39.997299-06:00",
      "duration": "0:01:04.304421",
      "result": "PASS",
      "loss": "0% packet loss"
    }

Result Value Types
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Result parsers can return any sort of json compatible value. This can be
a string, number (int or float), boolean, or a complex structure that
includes lists and dictionaries. Pavilion, in handling result values,
groups these into a few internal categories.

- **empty** - An empty result is a json ``null``, or an empty list.
  Everything else is **non-empty**.
- **match** - A **match** is a **non-empty** result that is also not json
  ``false``.
- **false** - False is special, in that it is neither **empty** nor a **match**.

The *actions* and *per\_file* sections below work with these categories
when deciding how to handle result parser values.

.. _tests.results.actions:

Actions
~~~~~~~

We saw in the above example that we can use an *action* to change how
the results are stored. There are several additional *actions* that can
be selected:

-  **store** - (Default) Simply store the result parser's output.
-  **store\_true** - Store ``true`` if the result is a **match**
   (non-empty and not false)
-  **store\_false** - Stores ``true`` if the result is not a **match**.
-  **count** - Count the length of list matches, regardless of contents.
   Non-list matches are 1 if a match, 0 otherwise.

.. _tests.results.files:

Files
~~~~~

By default, each result parser reads through the test's ``run.log``
file. You can specify a different file, a file glob, or even multiple
file globs to match an assortment of files. The files are parsed in the
order given.

If you need to reference the run log in addition to other files, it is
one directory up from the test's run directory, in ``../run.log``.

This test runs across a bunch of nodes, and produces an output file for
each. The regex parser runs across each of these, and (because it
defaults to returning the first found item only) returns that item or
``null`` for each of the files found. What it does with those values
depends on the **per\_file** attribute for the result parser.

.. code:: yaml

    hugetlb_check:
        scheduler: slurm
        slurm:
          num_nodes: 4

        run:
          cmds:
            # Use the srun --output option to specify that results are
            # to be written to separate files.
            - {{sched.test_cmd}} --output="%N.out" env

        result_parse:
            regex:
              # The matched values will be stored under the 'huge_size' key,
              # but that will vary based on the 'per_file' value.
              huge_size:
                  regex: 'HUGETLB_DEFAULT_PAGE_SIZE=(.+)'
                  # Run the parser against all files that end in .out
                  files: '*.out'
                  per_file: # We'll demonstrate these settings below

.. _tests.results.per_file:

per\_file: Manipulating Multiple File Results
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The **per\_file** option lets you manipulate how results are stored on a
file-by-file basis. Since the choice here will have a drastic effect on
your results, we'll demonstrate each from the standpoint of the test
config above.

Let's say the test ran on four nodes (node1, node2, node3, and node4),
but only node2 and node3 found a match. The results would be:

- node1 - ``<null>``
- node2 - ``2M``
- node3 - ``4K``
- node4 - ``<null>``

first - Keep the first result (Default)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code:: yaml

    result_parse:
        regex:
          huge_size:
            regex: 'HUGETLB_DEFAULT_PAGE_SIZE=(.+)'
            files: '*.out'
            per_file: first

Only the result from the first file with a **match** is kept. In this
case, the value from node1 would be ignored in favor of that of node2. The
results would contain:

.. code:: json

    {
      "huge_size": "2M"
    }

In the simple case of only specifying one file, the '**first**' result is the
only result. That's why this is the default; the first is all you normally need.

last - Keep the last result
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code:: yaml

    result_parse:
        regex:
          huge_size:
              regex: 'HUGETLB_DEFAULT_PAGE_SIZE=(.+)'
              files: '*.out'
              per_file: last

Just like '**first**', except we work backwards through the files and
get the last match value. In this case, that means ignoring node4's
result (because it is null) and taking node3's:

.. code:: json

    {
      "huge_size": "4K",
    }

all - True if each file returned a True result
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code:: yaml

    result_parse:
        regex:
          huge_size:
              regex: 'HUGETLB_DEFAULT_PAGE_SIZE=(.+)'
              files: '*.out'
              per_file: all

By itself, '**all**' sets the key to True if the result values for all
the files evaluate to True. Setting ``action: store_true`` produces more
predictable results.

+---------------------------+-----------+------------+--------------------+
|                           | value     | t/f value  | action: store_true |
+===========================+===========+============+====================+
| No result                 | ``<null>``| *false*    | *false*            |
+---------------------------+-----------+------------+--------------------+
| Non-empty strings         | ``'2M'``  | *true*     | *true*             |
+---------------------------+-----------+------------+--------------------+
| Empty strings             | ``''``    | *false*    | *true*             |
+---------------------------+-----------+------------+--------------------+
| Non-zero numbers          | ``5``     | *true*     | *true*             |
+---------------------------+-----------+------------+--------------------+
| Zero                      | ``0``     | *false*    | *true*             |
+---------------------------+-----------+------------+--------------------+
| Literal true              | ``true``  | *true*     | *true*             |
+---------------------------+-----------+------------+--------------------+
| Literal false             | ``false`` | *false*    | *false*            |
+---------------------------+-----------+------------+--------------------+

In our example, the result is ``false`` because some of our files had no matches
(a ``<null>`` result).

.. code:: json

    {
      "huge_size": false,
    }

any - True if any file returned a True result
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code:: yaml

    result_parse:
        regex:
          huge_size:
              regex: 'HUGETLB_DEFAULT_PAGE_SIZE=(.+)'
              files: '*.out'
              per_file: any

Like '**all**', but is ``true`` if any of the results evaluates to True. In
the case of our example, since at least one file matched, the key will be
set to 'true'

.. code:: json

    {
      "huge_size": true,
    }

list - Merge the file results into a single list
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code:: yaml

    result_parse:
        regex:
          huge_size:
              regex: 'HUGETLB_DEFAULT_PAGE_SIZE=(.+)'
              files: '*.out'
              per_file: list

For each result from each file, add them into a single list. **empty**
values are not added, but ``false`` is. If the result value is a list
already, then each of the values in the list is added.

.. code:: json

    {
      "huge_size": ["2M", "4K"],
    }

fullname - Stores in a filename based dict.
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code:: yaml

    result_parse:
        regex:
          huge_size:
              regex: 'HUGETLB_DEFAULT_PAGE_SIZE=(.+)'
              files: '*.out'
              per_file: fullname

Put the result under the key, but in a dictionary specific to that file. All
the file specific dictionaries are stored under the ``fn`` key by filename.

.. code:: json

    {
      "fn": {
        "node1.out": {"huge_size": null},
        "node2.out": {"huge_size": "2M"},
        "node3.out": {"huge_size": "4K"},
        "node4.out": {"huge_size": null}
      }
    }

-  When using the **fullname** *per\_file* setting, the key cannot be
   ``result``.
-  The rest of the file's path is ignored, so there is potential for
   file name collisions, as the same filename could exist in multiple
   places. Pavilion will report such collisions in the results under the
   ``error`` key.

name - Stores in a filename (without extension) based dict.
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code:: yaml

    result_parse:
        regex:
          huge_size:
              regex: 'HUGETLB_DEFAULT_PAGE_SIZE=(.+)'
              files: '*.out'
              per_file: fullname

Just like **fullname**, but instead the file name with the file extension
removed. These are stored under the ``n`` key in the results.

.. code:: json

    {
      "n": {
        "node1": {"huge_size": null},
        "node2": {"huge_size": "2M"},
        "node3": {"huge_size": "4K"},
        "node4": {"huge_size": null}
      }
    }


fullname_list - Stores the name of the files that matched.
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code:: yaml

    result_parse:
        regex:
          huge_size:
              regex: 'HUGETLB_DEFAULT_PAGE_SIZE=(.+)'
              files: '*.out'
              per_file: fullname_list

Stores a list of the names of the files that matched. The actual matched values
aren't saved.

.. code:: json

    {
      "huge_size": ["node2.out", "node3.out"],
    }

name_list - Stores the name of the files that matched.
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code:: yaml

    result_parse:
        regex:
          huge_size:
              regex: 'HUGETLB_DEFAULT_PAGE_SIZE=(.+)'
              files: '*.out'
              per_file: name_list

Stores a list of the names of the files that matched, minus extension. The
actual matched values aren't saved.

.. code:: json

    {
      "huge_size": ["node2", "node3"],
    }

Errors
~~~~~~

If an error occurs when parsing results that can be recovered from, a
description of the error is recorded under the ``error`` key. Each of
these is a dictionary with some useful values:

.. code:: yaml

    {
      "errors": [{
        # The error happened under this parser.
        "result_parser": "regex",
        # The file being processed.
        "file": "node3.out",
        # The key being processed
        "key": "hugetlb",
        "msg": "Error reading file 'node3.out': Permission error"
      }]
    }

