# System Variables

System Variable (sys_var) plugins give you the ability to add new variables 
that test configs can use in your environment. The variable values are 
generated by a Python function that you define, which makes the possibilities
fairly limitless.

The general idea here is that system variables are there to tell you 
information about the system/host Pavilion is running on, and the environment
that it is running in. 

## Files

System Variable plugins, like all other Pavilion plugins, require a python 
module and a yapsy-plugin file. See the [plugin basics](basics.md) for more 
info on these files and where they should go.

## System Variable Module

A system variable module should contain a class definition that inherits from 
the system variable base class.

```python
from pavilion import system_variables

class Uptime(system_variables.SystemPlugin):
    """This is a fairly useless variable, but is a good enough example."""

    def __init__(self):
        
        super().__init__(
            # The name of the plugin.
            plugin_name="uptime",
            # The description will be listed when using 'pav show sys_vars'
            description="How long the (kickoff) host has been up in seconds.",
        )
    
    # This is the method you override to provide the variables value.
    # The base .get() method handles all the deferred variable logic, so 
    # you don't have to.
    def _get(self):
    
        with open('/proc/uptime') as uptime:
            data = uptime.read()
            
        return data.split()[0]
```

With this plugin in the system, we can refer to it in test configs:

```yaml
uptime_test:
  run:
    cmds: echo {{sys.uptime}}
```

### The `_get()` Method
This should gather the information needed to compute your variables value and
then return that value. While the computation of the value can be simple or 
complex, the returned value must be one of the following:

 - A string
 - A dict with a strict set of string keys and string values
 - A list of such strings or dicts.
 
__Important__: If your variable can return dicts, it must always return them.
 It can't return dicts sometimes and strings other times.
Additionally, dicts returned must always have the same keys, regardless of 
system or other considerations. 
 
Additional restrictions apply to
[deferred variables](#the-is_deferrable-argument).

### The `__init__()` Method

The basics of the `__init__()` method are 
[covered elsewhere](basics.md#plugin-__init__), as are the generic arguments 
like ['name'](basics.md#plugin-name), ['priority'](basics.md#plugin-priority), 
and ['description'](basics.md#plugin-description).

#### The 'is_deferrable' argument
If this is set to `True`, then the variable value lookup will be deferred 
until right before the test is run within an allocation. This allows you to 
gather information on a node rather than the kickoff host. 

Deferred variable values are more restricted. They can be one of:
 - A string
 - A dict with string keys and string values

#### The `sub_keys` argument
If a variable is `deferred` and is expected to return a dict, you must 
provide a list of the sub-keys that the return dictionary will contain. This 
is so Pavilion can validate any sub-key references made in configs at 
test kickoff time.
